>> Zac: We'd start off looking
at our 5.1 List API posts.
And we'll pop open our ReadMe.
And we could see that
there's a few steps here.
So first of all, we have to get
access to the backbone client.
And we're gonna do it in
the same way that we did jQuery.
We're just gonna make it a dependency.
And then we've got to
set up our JavaScript.
So this will involved our introduction
into the backbone client and
how that works.
And then we will test it and
make sure that everything runs properly.
So where do we need to go.
First, we need to go into
our functions dot php and
make our file have a dependency.
>> Zac: Let's go to our functions.php.
>> Zac: And notice right here, it says,
make this file dependent on wp-api.
So just like before,
we would have put jQuery down here.
Instead, we're gonna do wp-api.
And this will automatically load
the backbone client that we want.
So we did that and then next we
come into our custom.php file.
You know I don't know- If it says that.
>> Zac: No, that's in our JavaScript,
setting up the JavaScript.
So we'll come into, let's see, was there
anything else about these functions,
there was one other thing.
Okay, notice this line of code.
What do you think this is
doing by just looking at it?
>> Zac: This is gonna make sure that
our JavaScript code that is inside
of here is only being run on
this custom.php template.
And inside this custom dot php template,
we gave it a name.
Again this is like very basic
WordPress php stuff if you work with
theme that is all pretty common.
But if this is new, don't worry
cuz it's already coded for you.
So this would mean that once you put this
here that it will show up in the back end
and you can choose it as a custom
template and it'll all work as intended.
So there's nothing special on this page
yet but there will be as we go on.
So this is only gonna
load on that page and
now we need to go in to our theme.js file.
So let's see what we've got going
on here we've got our app container
We're loading our posts, and
then there's this function load posts
where it says posts = GET_API_POSTS, and
it wants us to change it to this value.
So let's copy that and
put it in there and this is the backbone
client, this is what it looks like.
So you'll say new.wp.collections.whatever,
posts, pages, media, comments.
And if you've worked with Backbone,
you may guess that you could also do like
wp.api.model, and pull in different
things like that or post that way.
So if you know some backbone this will
make a little bit more sense, but
if not it's pretty intuitive and
there's not too much we have to do here.
The next thing we do is this
just gets the posts ready but
we still have to fetch
them in another call.
So we're gonna change fetch
posts to posts.fetch.
And then, this is following
the promise architecture.
So it's basically setting
up what you want to get.
So we're gonna get posts.
We're fetching the posts here.
And then, once those posts are fetched,
we're gonna clear the page.
We haven't look at this, but
you can guess what this function is doing.
It's basically just wiping it blank.
And then for each of our posts,
we're going to load the post.
So POST_HERE won't work.
We have to pass this in, and
this is where I have to talk
about a little backboney stuff.
So has anybody worked with Backbone,
by chance?
>> Zac: No?
Okay, this is really
bad Backbone practice.
Basically, the way Backbone works is
it gives you access to posts, and
we'll come to it in a second, but
let's say that we wanted to do
post.title.rendered specifically
all right.
So this will give us our post but
doesn't like you doing that
what it wants you to do is
use a get to do like that
I think it's either get or getattributes,
something like that, very similar.
Now the reason you wanna do this
is because let's imagine that
in our backbone app we're building,
some of that data is changed and
these collections are listening
to those changes in data.
If we take this approach
of rather than doing .get
of just hard coding into our attributes,
we won't see those changes reflected.
But the reason we could do this
kind of hacky thing is that
we're not using that backbone in that way.
It's not like we are using an entire
Backbone App where our model and
our data is all connected.
This is just simply helping us manage and
get access to posts.
And the creator suggested
that we do it this way.
So this is going to make
our next step a lot easier.
But I will point out that it's not
necessarily the best practice.
So we get all of our posts.
Again, this is basically, behind the
scenes, I think it's a jQuery Ajax call.
And it's just dolling it up, and
making it all pretty and nice for us.
But we're basically saying, hey,
get our posts, fetch them, and then,
when you're done, clear the posts and then
for each post go ahead and load that post.
So we'll look down on
our load post function.
Has anybody ever written native
Java Script like this where you
append a markup string onto a page or
into an object?
Yea, Nay?
Okay, like I said, I may lose you
with some of the JavaScript we wrote.
Don't worry about it too much.
I'll show you the important
parts right here.
Basically, what we're doing is
we're creating an article and
then we're going to put a bunch
of content inside that article.
Just think of it that way.
So, this is going to be put
in h2 with an anchor tag,
the title and then closing it, right?
And if you haven't seen ES6 template
strings, they're amazing cuz they allow us
to basically refer to variables like this,
okay?
So it wants us to change some things.
We're gonna change link to post.link.
We're gonna change title
to post.title.rendered.
And we're gonna change content
here to post.content, rendered.
And this is why we looked before,
remember?
It was content and
then you had to go to render.
If we did this and removed attributes,
we would have to do something like this.
>> Zac: This does not look
as like JavaScripty and
template languagey and
clean as you might like.
It may potentially be stronger backbone
implementation behind the scenes, but
since we don't really
need to leverage that and
this is a lot cleaner,
this is why we're doing it, okay?
So really behind the scenes that's why
we're not just passing the regular
post here, it's a backbone thing.
clearPosts is just taking
our entire app and
clearing out the innerHTML setting it to
zero, so that will clear away everything.
So once we run this code we should see
the posts being pulled into the page and
loaded.
So let's go ahead and save our changes and
activate our theme 5.1.
>> Zac: Remember, the one thing you
have to do to get this to work is go
into a page on your site any page will do,
I did have to set up a menu.
If you're familiar with WordPress and
how to use the customizer
you can go into menus.
>> Zac: I only have two things on my site.
Actually is it displaying
a menu by default for you?
>> Zac: On your theme is
it showing links here?
Yes or no?
Yes?
>> Male: Mine is.
>> Zac: Okay, cool.
So you don't have to do that
stuff I just showed you.
Click on one of your pages.
Go in and edit it.
And make sure that you
choose under template.
Not the default template,
but our Custom JS Page and
that's what's gonna transform this and any
other page that we assign to this template
to work with the code that we just set up.
Remember cuz JavaScript is only
executing on that one page.
>> Zac: Okay, so we come to our site now.
GIT_API_POSTS is not defined.
Okay, so we missed something in
theme.js so lets come back over here.
>> Zac: I know why.
I just made all my edits
not in my theme folder.
>> Zac: Shake the head, man, oops.
Okay, sorry, I gotta go and
catch up really quick.
Okay, so we've got this all working right.
I mean it is a completed one.
I was editing the wrong file.
But the code that we did should be
correct and this has all of our pages.
Now some of this stuff,
like if we click on one of these links,
it's going to go to the actual site.
So ultimately,
that may not be the behavior we want.
We could play around with that, but
we've got this working completely
with just JavaScript now.